Welcome back to the continuation of the solution.
We stopped it mean right here in the last two parts that we've got to do our display the smallest number
and display the largest number.
And then of course we have to handle quick which is really easy to do.
All right so let me scroll back down here and clean up a little bit of this white space.
All right.
So this is where we're at right here.
So now the user hasn't typed in appear and they are in em.
Maybe they've typed in an S which is the smallest So we'll do another ill's else if ladder here we'll
see.
Else if the selection is equal to a capital S or selection is a lowercase s.
In this case we need to calculate the smallest number in the list.
There's a lot of ways to do this.
But again let's deal with the case where the list is empty right.
So we'll say if numbers just like we have before if numbers that size
is 0 then we've got an empty list.
We could just say C out and we could say unable to determine the smallest.
This is empty.
Or something like that.
Any kind of message that makes sense and will put an end line here.
Now we're in the L section at this point.
Obviously there is some data in that vector so what we can do is we can again iterate through the entire
vector and look for the smallest number.
Well how do we do that.
It's pretty simple.
Just pick the first number and assume it's the smallest and then iterate through the vector.
And if you see anything smaller just replace that one with the smallest one.
So again it's pretty straightforward so let's do that.
Let's say we've got a smallest we'll call it smallest and what we'll do is we'll initialize that guy
to numbers at zero.
All right so let's think about what's going on here.
What we're doing here is we're saying that the smallest integer is the first integer in the vector right
now reasonable assumption.
We know that there is at least one integer in there.
So we'll do that then what we'll say is we'll do again arr. base for loop will say auto We call it numb
and the collection is numbers.
So we'll loop through there and what we'll say is if the number we just read is less than the smallest
that we've already seen then what do we do then we make the smallest the number we just read.
That's it really straightforward.
Now we do need do an output statement but look where we're going to do it.
We're not going to do it here.
We're going to do it here because the part this point we're out of that for loop.
So we're going to say seek out the smallest number is a colon and it's smallest and will provide an
end line.
That's it.
Let's test this out and we could put data in here top.
It's right up here.
Just put a bunch of data on the we know what the smallest is.
But I really want to test it all as we go so I would have run it now and let's add 10 and let's add
20 ambil so like us we expect 10.
That's exactly what we got back.
Let's add another number let's add negative 20 that's print the numbers we've got 10 20 negative 20.
If we want the smallest at this point I'll press again.
We should get negative 20.
And there it is negative 20.
It's a whole bunch of other test cases you could do but this works just fine.
Press Q to quit and next is the largest.
Right.
The logic is exactly the same as this except it's going the other way.
So in this case me clean up that whitespace space right here.
We're going to say else if the selection is equal to a capital L or the selection is equal to a lower
case L now the user wants to find the largest number in there and he is a mother block statement and
the same logic I'm going to say and largest and I'm going to assume that largest is the number at the
zero if location rate.
The first number in the vector hopes they'll me back up here.
Forgot to check to make sure that there's numbers in there right.
So if numbers that size.
I've got a little bit ahead of myself there if numbers that size is equal to zero.
That in this case there is nothing to check right.
So we'll just do the same thing we did here we'll say see out unable to determine largest.
This is empty.
Here's the else part that's the part I got ahead of myself.
Let's assume that the largest is that first number I know there is a first number right.
Because the size was not zero.
So at this point were we to loop through the collection again.
So when I say auto numb numbers just like we did before and we're going to check if the number we just
read is greater than the largest number we've seen then what we're going to do is we're going to say
that the largest number is now no
zipless in our output statement now says the largest number is and we'll say largest.
So that should take care of the largest case so let's test this out.
So let's add some numbers will add negative 10.
We'll add a thousand.
We'll add 200 and will add 300.
So that's displayer list.
So you got negative ten thousand two hundred three hundred.
We expect the largest to be a thousand saw press l and the largest number is a thousand.
Let's check the smallest again as the smallest is negative 10.
Cool.
So we're almost done right.
Oh we need to handle is the cue case quit here and the case is real simple because all we want to do
is just say goodbye.
So let's do that here.
We'll say else if the selection in this case.
Right.
Just like before is an uppercase Q Or if the selection is equal to a lowercase Q In this case what we
want is to simply say C out and let's do that in a block as well.
You really want to do these in blocks because you never know when you're going to come back to add code
and it's already set up to add code this way.
So say goodbye
and line
perfect.
And while we're here we may as well handle that other case right.
That's the catch all else right here.
That's going to be the end of the LCF else later.
What happens here.
Well they tried something in that I have no idea what to do with.
So at this point what do we say.
C out unknown selection.
Please try again.
That's as simple as that.
OK.
Seems like a lot of code and it sort of is when we talk about functions very soon we're going to make
this so much easier because instead of all of this code and here we're just going to have one line that
calls a function and one line that calls a function here and so forth.
So we'll get to there soon.
But let's finish this up now.
Building and running.
That's Press queue.
We expect the goodbye message now.
There it is goodbye and we quit and let's type in something that we don't know what to do with an.
Unknown selection.
Please try again one unknown selection Please try again.
And that's it.
That's the solution.
Of course you could have done this with a switch statement here in which case it might have looked something
like switch off of selection.
And then here you would have case
Q case lowercase Q You know C out the by and then break here and then you'd have all your other cases
just like you saw in the videos.
But in this case I think the switch statement is OK if we're using functions we could just call functions
here but otherwise the switch statement Tesa get even longer.
And I don't know how many lines of code we wrote for this example let's see.
We started on about line 65 because the rest was just you know the stuff at the top.
So we went from about 65 down to about 140.
So I don't know about 70 lines of code or so it would be obviously much less when we do functions with
the switch statement I think it would be even longer the amount of code we'd written just because of
the syntax of the switch.
But the if else if latter works great here.
Obviously if I decide to add another option here it's just a matter of coming in here and you could
do it anywhere really because it's all sort of mutually exclusive right and you could just do it right
here else if at it between this one and this one in there you've got your other option just as easy
as that.
OK so I hope you enjoyed this challenge.
This was a challenging challenge because it's using everything that we've learned so far.
But there's a lot of logic going on here.
It's a simple program but there's a lot of logic going on here.
You've got you know a do while loop you've got four loops looping through the iteration and thank goodness
that C post posts 11 gave us this range based for loop because that makes it so simple we don't have
to do things like and I equals zero.
I less than you know the size of the vector and then increment i along the way we'll have to deal with
any of that.
So that makes it really really straightforward.
OK.
So I hope you enjoyed this section.